# Routing

### The Default Route Files

- Routes are defined in your route files located in the routes directory.
- Automatically loaded by Laravel using the configuration specified in your application's bootstrap/app.php file.
- The routes/web.php file defines routes that are for web interface. These routes are assigned the web middleware group, which provides features like session state and CSRF protection.

### API Routes

- For stateless API, enable API routing using the `install:api` artisan command
- install:api command creates the routes/api.php file:
- The install:api command installs Laravel Sanctum, which provides a robust, yet simple API token authentication guard which can be used to authenticate third-party API consumers, SPAs, or mobile applications.
- The routes in routes/api.php are stateless and are assigned to the api middleware group.

Additionally, the /api URI prefix is automatically applied to these routes, so you do not need to manually apply it to every route in the file. You may change the prefix by modifying your application's bootstrap/app.php file:

```php
->withRouting(
    api: __DIR__.'/../routes/api.php',
    apiPrefix: 'api/admin',
    // ...
)
```

### Available Router Methods

```php
Route::get($uri, $callback);
Route::post($uri, $callback);
Route::put($uri, $callback);
Route::patch($uri, $callback);
Route::delete($uri, $callback);
Route::options($uri, $callback);
```

`match` responds to multiple HTTP verbs. `any` responds to all HTTP verbs.

```php
Route::match(['get', 'post'], '/', function () {
    // ...
});

Route::any('/', function () {
    // ...
});
```

> When defining multiple routes that share the same URI, routes using the get, post, put, patch, delete, and options methods should be defined before routes using the any, match, and redirect methods. This ensures the incoming request is matched with the correct route.

- Type hinted dependencies will automatically be injected into the callback
- Type-hint the Illuminate\Http\Request class to have the current HTTP request injected into your route callback:

### CSRF Protection

 Any HTML forms pointing to POST, PUT, PATCH, or DELETE routes that are defined in the web routes file should include a CSRF token field. Otherwise, the request will be rejected

```html
<form method="POST" action="/profile">
    @csrf
    ...
</form>
```

### Redirect Routes

By default, Route::redirect returns a 302 status code.

```php
Route::redirect('/here', '/there');
```

For permanant redirects

```php
Route::redirect('/here', '/there', 301);

Route::permanentRedirect('/here', '/there');
```

> When using route parameters in redirect routes, the following parameters are reserved by Laravel and cannot be used: destination and status.
