# HTTP Requests

`Illuminate\Http\Request` extends the `Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request` class.

## Interacting With The Request

### Accessing the Request

To obtain an instance of the current HTTP request via dependency injection, you should type-hint the `Illuminate\Http\Request` class on your route closure or controller method. The incoming request instance will automatically be injected by the Laravel service container:

### Dependency Injection and Route Parameters

If your controller method is also expecting input from a route parameter you should list your route parameters after your other dependencies.

```php
public function update(Request $request, string $id): RedirectResponse
{
    // Update the user...

    return redirect('/users');
}
```

## Request Path, Host, and Method

### Retrieving the Request Path

If the incoming request is targeted at `http://example.com/foo/bar`, the path method will return `foo/bar`:

```php
$uri = $request->path();
```

### Inspecting the Request Path / Route

The is method allows you to verify that the incoming request path matches a given pattern. You may use the * character as a wildcard when utilizing this method:

```php
if ($request->is('admin/*')) {
    // ...
}
```

Using the `routeIs` method, you may determine if the incoming request has matched a named route:

```php
if ($request->routeIs('admin.*')) {
    // ...
}
```

### Retrieving the Request URL

To retrieve the full URL for the incoming request you may use the `url` or `fullUrl` methods. The url method will return the URL without the query string, while the fullUrl method includes the query string:

```php
$url = $request->url();

$urlWithQueryString = $request->fullUrl();
```

If you would like to append query string data to the current URL, you may call the `fullUrlWithQuery` method. This method merges the given array of query string variables with the current query string:

```php
$request->fullUrlWithQuery(['type' => 'phone']);
```

If you would like to get the current URL without a given query string parameter, you may utilize the `fullUrlWithoutQuery` method:

```php
$request->fullUrlWithoutQuery(['type']);
```

### Retrieving the Request Host

You may retrieve the "host" of the incoming request via the host, httpHost, and schemeAndHttpHost methods:

```php
$request->host();
$request->httpHost();
$request->schemeAndHttpHost();
```

### Retrieving the Request Method

The `method` method will return the HTTP verb for the request. You may use the `isMethod` method to verify that the HTTP verb matches a given string:

```php
$method = $request->method();

if ($request->isMethod('post')) {
    // ...
}
```

## Request Headers

```php
$value = $request->header('X-Header-Name');

$value = $request->header('X-Header-Name', 'default');


if ($request->hasHeader('X-Header-Name')) {
    // ...
}

/*
For convenience, the bearerToken method may be used to retrieve a bearer token from the Authorization header. If no such header is present, an empty string will be returned:
*/
$token = $request->bearerToken();
```

## Request IP Address

The ip method may be used to retrieve the IP address of the client that made the request to your application:

```php
$ipAddress = $request->ip();
```

If you would like to retrieve an array of IP addresses, including all of the client IP addresses that were forwarded by proxies, you may use the ips method. The "original" client IP address will be at the end of the array:

```php
$ipAddresses = $request->ips();
```

In general, IP addresses should be considered untrusted, user-controlled input and be used for informational purposes only.

## Content Negotiation

Laravel provides several methods for inspecting the incoming request's requested content types via the `Accept` header. First, the getAcceptableContentTypes method will return an array containing all of the content types accepted by the request:

```php
$contentTypes = $request->getAcceptableContentTypes();
```

The accepts method accepts an array of content types and returns true if any of the content types are accepted by the request. Otherwise, false will be returned:

```php
if ($request->accepts(['text/html', 'application/json'])) {
    // ...
}
```

You may use the prefers method to determine which content type out of a given array of content types is most preferred by the request. If none of the provided content types are accepted by the request, null will be returned:

```php
$preferred = $request->prefers(['text/html', 'application/json']);
```

Since many applications only serve HTML or JSON, you may use the expectsJson method to quickly determine if the incoming request expects a JSON response:

```php
if ($request->expectsJson()) {
    // ...
}
```

## PSR-7 Requests

The PSR-7 standard specifies interfaces for HTTP messages, including requests and responses. If you would like to obtain an instance of a PSR-7 request instead of a Laravel request, you will first need to install a few libraries. Laravel uses the Symfony HTTP Message Bridge component to convert typical Laravel requests and responses into PSR-7 compatible implementations:

```
composer require symfony/psr-http-message-bridge
composer require nyholm/psr7
```

Once you have installed these libraries, you may obtain a PSR-7 request by type-hinting the request interface on your route closure or controller method:

```php
use Psr\Http\Message\ServerRequestInterface;

Route::get('/', function (ServerRequestInterface $request) {
    // ...
});
```

> If you return a PSR-7 response instance from a route or controller, it will automatically be converted back to a Laravel response instance and be displayed by the framework.


# Input

## Retrieving Input

### Retrieving All Input Data

You may retrieve all of the incoming request's input data as an array using the all method. This method may be used regardless of whether the incoming request is from an HTML form or is an XHR request:

```php
$input = $request->all();

// Retrieve as collection
$input = $request->collect();

// Retrieve subset of the incoming request
$request->collect('users')->each(function (string $user) {
    // ...
});
```

### Retrieving an Input Value

```php
// Regardless of the HTTP verb, the input method may be used to retrieve user input:
$name = $request->input('name');

// Default value
$name = $request->input('name', 'Sally');

// Forms that contain array inputs
$name = $request->input('products.0.name');

$names = $request->input('products.*.name');

// Retrieve all of the input values as an associative array:
$input = $request->input();
```

### Retrieving Input From the Query String

While the input method retrieves values from the entire request payload (including the query string), the query method will only retrieve values from the query string:

```php
$name = $request->query('name');

// Default
$name = $request->query('name', 'Helen');

// Retrieve all of the query string values as an associative array:
$query = $request->query();
```

### Retrieving JSON Input Values

When sending JSON requests to your application, you may access the JSON data via the input method as long as the Content-Type header of the request is properly set to application/json. You may even use "dot" syntax to retrieve values that are nested within JSON arrays / objects:

```php
$name = $request->input('user.name');
```

### Retrieving Stringable Input Values

Instead of retrieving the request's input data as a primitive string, you may use the `string` method to retrieve the request data as an instance of `Illuminate\Support\Stringable`:

```php
$name = $request->string('name')->trim();
```

### Retrieving Integer Input Values

To retrieve input values as integers, you may use the integer method. This method will attempt to cast the input value to an integer. If the input is not present or the cast fails, it will return the default value you specify.

```php
$perPage = $request->integer('per_page');
```

### Retrieving Boolean Input Values

When dealing with HTML elements like checkboxes, your application may receive "truthy" values that are actually strings. For example, "true" or "on". For convenience, you may use the boolean method to retrieve these values as booleans. The boolean method returns true for 1, "1", true, "true", "on", and "yes". All other values will return false:

```php
$archived = $request->boolean('archived');
```

### Retrieving Date Input Values

For convenience, input values containing dates / times may be retrieved as Carbon instances using the date method. If the request does not contain an input value with the given name, null will be returned:

```php
$birthday = $request->date('birthday');
```

The second and third arguments accepted by the date method may be used to specify the date's format and timezone, respectively:

```php
$elapsed = $request->date('elapsed', '!H:i', 'Europe/Madrid');
```

If the input value is present but has an invalid format, an `InvalidArgumentException` will be thrown; therefore, it is recommended that you validate the input before invoking the date method.

### Retrieving Enum Input Values

Input values that correspond to PHP enums may also be retrieved from the request. If the request does not contain an input value with the given name or the enum does not have a backing value that matches the input value, null will be returned. The enum method accepts the name of the input value and the enum class as its first and second arguments:

```php
use App\Enums\Status;

$status = $request->enum('status', Status::class);
```

If the input value is an array of values that correspond to a PHP enum, you may use the enums method to retrieve the array of values as enum instances:

```php
use App\Enums\Product;

$products = $request->enums('products', Product::class);
```

### Retrieving Input via Dynamic Properties

When using dynamic properties, Laravel will first look for the parameter's value in the request payload. If it is not present, Laravel will search for the field in the matched route's parameters.

```php
$name = $request->name;
```

### Retrieving a Portion of the Input Data

```php
$input = $request->only(['username', 'password']);

$input = $request->only('username', 'password');

$input = $request->except(['credit_card']);

$input = $request->except('credit_card');
```

> The only method returns all of the key / value pairs that you request; however, it will not return key / value pairs that are not present on the request.

## Input Presence

```php
// Returns true if the value is present on the request:
if ($request->has('name')) {
    // ...
}

// All of the specified values are present: ?
if ($request->has(['name', 'email'])) {
    // ...
}

// Any of the specified values are present ?
if ($request->hasAny(['name', 'email'])) {
    // ...
}
```

The `whenHas` method will execute the given closure if a value is present on the request:

```php
$request->whenHas('name', function (string $input) {
    // ...
});
```

A second closure may be passed to the whenHas method that will be executed if the specified value is not present on the request:

```php
$request->whenHas('name', function (string $input) {
    // The "name" value is present...
}, function () {
    // The "name" value is not present...
});
```

If you would like to determine if a value is present on the request and is not an empty string, you may use the filled method:

```php
if ($request->filled('name')) {
    // ...
}
```

If you would like to determine if a value is missing from the request or is an empty string, you may use the isNotFilled method:

```php
if ($request->isNotFilled('name')) {
    // ...
}
```

When given an array, the isNotFilled method will determine if all of the specified values are missing or empty:

```php
if ($request->isNotFilled(['name', 'email'])) {
    // ...
}
```

The anyFilled method returns true if any of the specified values is not an empty string:

```php
if ($request->anyFilled(['name', 'email'])) {
    // ...
}
```

The whenFilled method will execute the given closure if a value is present on the request and is not an empty string:

```php
$request->whenFilled('name', function (string $input) {
    // ...
});
```

A second closure may be passed to the whenFilled method that will be executed if the specified value is not "filled":

```php
$request->whenFilled('name', function (string $input) {
    // The "name" value is filled...
}, function () {
    // The "name" value is not filled...
});
```

To determine if a given key is absent from the request, you may use the missing and whenMissing methods:

```php
if ($request->missing('name')) {
    // ...
}

$request->whenMissing('name', function () {
    // The "name" value is missing...
}, function () {
    // The "name" value is present...
});
```

## Merging Additional Input

Sometimes you may need to manually merge additional input into the request's existing input data. To accomplish this, you may use the merge method. If a given input key already exists on the request, it will be overwritten by the data provided to the merge method:

```php
$request->merge(['votes' => 0]);
```

The mergeIfMissing method may be used to merge input into the request if the corresponding keys do not already exist within the request's input data:

```php
$request->mergeIfMissing(['votes' => 0]);
```

## Old Input

Laravel allows you to keep input from one request during the next request. This feature is particularly useful for re-populating forms after detecting validation errors. However, if you are using Laravel's included validation features, it is possible that you will not need to manually use these session input flashing methods directly, as some of Laravel's built-in validation facilities will call them automatically.

```php
$request->flash();

$request->flashOnly(['username', 'email']);

$request->flashExcept('password');
```

### Flashing Input Then Redirecting

Since you often will want to flash input to the session and then redirect to the previous page, you may easily chain input flashing onto a redirect using the withInput method:

```php
return redirect('/form')->withInput();

return redirect()->route('user.create')->withInput();

return redirect('/form')->withInput(
    $request->except('password')
);
```

### Retrieving Old Input

The old method will pull the previously flashed input data from the session:

```php
$username = $request->old('username');
```

If you are displaying old input within a Blade template, it is more convenient to use the old helper to repopulate the form. If no old input exists for the given field, null will be returned:

```html
<input type="text" name="username" value="{{ old('username') }}">
```

## Cookies

### Retrieving Cookies From Requests

All cookies created by the Laravel framework are encrypted and signed with an authentication code, meaning they will be considered invalid if they have been changed by the client.

```php
$value = $request->cookie('name');
```

# Input Trimming and Normalization

By default, Laravel includes the `Illuminate\Foundation\Http\Middleware\TrimStrings` and `Illuminate\Foundation\Http\Middleware\ConvertEmptyStringsToNull` middleware in your application's global middleware stack. These middleware will automatically trim all incoming string fields on the request, as well as convert any empty string fields to null. This allows you to not have to worry about these normalization concerns in your routes and controllers.

### Disabling Input Normalization

If you would like to disable this behavior for all requests, you may remove the two middleware from your application's middleware stack by invoking the `$middleware->remove` method in your application's `bootstrap/app.php` file:

```php
use Illuminate\Foundation\Http\Middleware\ConvertEmptyStringsToNull;
use Illuminate\Foundation\Http\Middleware\TrimStrings;

->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware) {
    $middleware->remove([
        ConvertEmptyStringsToNull::class,
        TrimStrings::class,
    ]);
})
```

If you would like to disable string trimming and empty string conversion for a subset of requests to your application, you may use the trimStrings and convertEmptyStringsToNull middleware methods within your application's bootstrap/app.php file. Both methods accept an array of closures, which should return true or false to indicate whether input normalization should be skipped:

```php
->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware) {
    $middleware->convertEmptyStringsToNull(except: [
        fn (Request $request) => $request->is('admin/*'),
    ]);

    $middleware->trimStrings(except: [
        fn (Request $request) => $request->is('admin/*'),
    ]);
})
```

## Files

### Retrieving Uploaded Files

The file method returns an instance of the Illuminate\Http\UploadedFile class, which extends the PHP SplFileInfo class and provides a variety of methods for interacting with the file:

```php
$file = $request->file('photo');

$file = $request->photo;

if ($request->hasFile('photo')) {
    // ...
}
```

### Validating Successful Uploads

In addition to checking if the file is present, you may verify that there were no problems uploading the file via the isValid method:

```php
if ($request->file('photo')->isValid()) {
    // ...
}
```

### File Paths and Extensions

The UploadedFile class also contains methods for accessing the file's fully-qualified path and its extension. The extension method will attempt to guess the file's extension based on its contents. This extension may be different from the extension that was supplied by the client:

```php
$path = $request->photo->path();

$extension = $request->photo->extension();
```

http://l3.shihan.me/api/class-Symfony.Component.HttpFoundation.File.UploadedFile.html


## Storing Uploaded Files

To store an uploaded file, you will typically use one of your configured filesystems. The `UploadedFile` class has a `store` method that will move an uploaded file to one of your disks, which may be a location on your local filesystem or a cloud storage location like Amazon S3.

The store method accepts the path where the file should be stored relative to the filesystem's configured root directory. This path should not contain a filename, since a unique ID will automatically be generated to serve as the filename.

The store method also accepts an optional second argument for the name of the disk that should be used to store the file. The method will return the path of the file relative to the disk's root:

```php
$path = $request->photo->store('images');

$path = $request->photo->store('images', 's3');
```

If you do not want a filename to be automatically generated, you may use the storeAs method, which accepts the path, filename, and disk name as its arguments:

```php
$path = $request->photo->storeAs('images', 'filename.jpg');

$path = $request->photo->storeAs('images', 'filename.jpg', 's3');
```

# Configuring Trusted Proxies

When running your applications behind a load balancer that terminates TLS / SSL certificates, you may notice your application sometimes does not generate HTTPS links when using the url helper. Typically this is because your application is being forwarded traffic from your load balancer on port 80 and does not know it should generate secure links.

To solve this, you may enable the `Illuminate\Http\Middleware\TrustProxies` middleware that is included in your Laravel application, which allows you to quickly customize the load balancers or proxies that should be trusted by your application. Your trusted proxies should be specified using the `trustProxies` middleware method in your application's `bootstrap/app.php` file:

```php
->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware) {
    $middleware->trustProxies(at: [
        '192.168.1.1',
        '10.0.0.0/8',
    ]);
})
```

In addition to configuring the trusted proxies, you may also configure the proxy headers that should be trusted:

```php
->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware) {
    $middleware->trustProxies(headers: Request::HEADER_X_FORWARDED_FOR |
        Request::HEADER_X_FORWARDED_HOST |
        Request::HEADER_X_FORWARDED_PORT |
        Request::HEADER_X_FORWARDED_PROTO |
        Request::HEADER_X_FORWARDED_AWS_ELB
    );
})
```

> If you are using AWS Elastic Load Balancing, the headers value should be Request::HEADER_X_FORWARDED_AWS_ELB. If your load balancer uses the standard Forwarded header from RFC 7239, the headers value should be Request::HEADER_FORWARDED

### Trusting All Proxies

If you are using Amazon AWS or another "cloud" load balancer provider, you may not know the IP addresses of your actual balancers. In this case, you may use * to trust all proxies:

```php
->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware) {
    $middleware->trustProxies(at: '*');
})
```

# Configuring Trusted Hosts

By default, Laravel will respond to all requests it receives regardless of the content of the HTTP request's `Host` header. In addition, the Host header's value will be used when generating absolute URLs to your application during a web request.

Typically, you should configure your web server, such as Nginx or Apache, to only send requests to your application that match a given hostname. However, if you do not have the ability to customize your web server directly and need to instruct Laravel to only respond to certain hostnames, you may do so by enabling the `Illuminate\Http\Middleware\TrustHosts` middleware for your application.

To enable the TrustHosts middleware, you should invoke the trustHosts middleware method in your application's bootstrap/app.php file. Using the at argument of this method, you may specify the hostnames that your application should respond to. Incoming requests with other Host headers will be rejected:

```php
->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware) {
    $middleware->trustHosts(at: ['laravel.test']);
})
```

By default, requests coming from subdomains of the application's URL are also automatically trusted. If you would like to disable this behavior, you may use the subdomains argument:

```php
->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware) {
    $middleware->trustHosts(at: ['laravel.test'], subdomains: false);
})
```

If you need to access your application's configuration files or database to determine your trusted hosts, you may provide a closure to the at argument:

```php
->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware) {
    $middleware->trustHosts(at: fn () => config('app.trusted_hosts'));
})
```


