# Directory Structure

You are free to organize your application however you like. Laravel imposes almost no restrictions on where any given class is located - as long as Composer can autoload the class.

## The Root Directory

### The App Directory

The app directory contains the core code of your application.

### The Bootstrap Directory

The bootstrap directory contains the app.php file which bootstraps the framework. This directory also houses a cache directory which contains framework generated files for performance optimization such as the route and services cache files.

### The Config Directory

Contains all of your application's configuration files.

### The Database Directory

The database directory contains your database migrations, model factories, and seeds. If you wish, you may also use this directory to hold an SQLite database.

### The Public Directory

The public directory contains the index.php file, which is the entry point for all requests entering your application and configures autoloading. This directory also houses your assets such as images, JavaScript, and CSS.

### The Resources Directory

The resources directory contains your views as well as your raw, un-compiled assets such as CSS or JavaScript.


### The Routes Directory

The routes directory contains all of the route definitions for your application.

- The web.php file contains routes that Laravel places in the web middleware group, which provides session state, CSRF protection, and cookie encryption.
- The console.php file is where you may define all of your closure based console commands. You may also schedule tasks in the console.php file.
- The api.php file contains routes that are intended to be stateless, so requests entering the application through these routes are intended to be authenticated via tokens and will not have access to session state.
- The channels.php file is where you may register all of the event broadcasting channels that your application supports.

### The Storage Directory

The storage directory contains your logs, compiled Blade templates, file based sessions, file caches, and other files generated by the framework. The app directory may be used to store any files generated by your application. The framework directory is used to store framework generated files and caches. Finally, the logs directory contains your application's log files.

The storage/app/public directory may be used to store user-generated files, such as profile avatars, that should be publicly accessible. You should create a symbolic link at public/storage which points to this directory. You may create the link using the php artisan storage:link Artisan command.

### The Tests Directory

The tests directory contains your automated tests.


### The Vendor Directory

The vendor directory contains your Composer dependencies.


### The App Directory

The majority of your application is housed in the app directory. By default, this directory is namespaced under App and is autoloaded by Composer using the PSR-4 autoloading standard.


`php artisan list make` -> Commands to generate files.
