# Authentication

https://laravel.com/docs/11.x/authentication

At its core, Laravel's authentication facilities are made up of `"guards"` and `"providers"`. Guards define how users are authenticated for each request. For example, Laravel ships with a session guard which maintains state using session storage and cookies.

Providers define how users are retrieved from your persistent storage. Laravel ships with support for retrieving users using Eloquent and the database query builder. However, you are free to define additional providers as needed for your application.

Authentication configuration file is located at config/auth.php.

>Guards and providers should not be confused with "roles" and "permissions".


### Database Considerations

By default, Laravel includes an App\Models\User Eloquent model in your app/Models directory. This model may be used with the default Eloquent authentication driver. If your application is not using Eloquent, you may use the database authentication provider which uses the Laravel query builder.

Notes:
Password column should be at least 60 characters in length. Users table should also contains a nullable string remember_token column of 100 characters.


## Ecosystem Overview

First, consider how authentication works. When using a web browser, a user will provide their username and password via a login form. If these credentials are correct, the application will store information about the authenticated user in the user's session. A cookie issued to the browser contains the session ID so that subsequent requests to the application can associate the user with the correct session. After the session cookie is received, the application will retrieve the session data based on the session ID, note that the authentication information has been stored in the session, and will consider the user as "authenticated".

When a remote service needs to authenticate to access an API, cookies are not typically used for authentication because there is no web browser. Instead, the remote service sends an API token to the API on each request. The application may validate the incoming token against a table of valid API tokens and "authenticate" the request as being performed by the user associated with that API token.

### Laravel's API Authentication Services

Laravel provides two optional packages to assist you in managing API tokens and authenticating requests made with API tokens: Passport and Sanctum. Please note that these libraries and Laravel's built-in cookie based authentication libraries are not mutually exclusive. These libraries primarily focus on API token authentication while the built-in authentication services focus on cookie based browser authentication. Many applications will use both Laravel's built-in cookie based authentication services and one of Laravel's API authentication packages.


### Passport

Passport is an OAuth2 authentication provider, offering a variety of OAuth2 "grant types" which allow you to issue various types of tokens. In general, this is a robust and complex package for API authentication. However, most applications do not require the complex features offered by the OAuth2 spec, which can be confusing for both users and developers. In addition, developers have been historically confused about how to authenticate SPA applications or mobile applications using OAuth2 authentication providers like Passport.

### Sanctum

In response to the complexity of OAuth2 and developer confusion, we set out to build a simpler, more streamlined authentication package that could handle both first-party web requests from a web browser and API requests via tokens. This goal was realized with the release of Laravel Sanctum, which should be considered the preferred and recommended authentication package for applications that will be offering a first-party web UI in addition to an API, or will be powered by a single-page application (SPA) that exists separately from the backend Laravel application, or applications that offer a mobile client.

### Summary and Choosing Your Stack

In summary, if your application will be accessed using a browser and you are building a monolithic Laravel application, your application will use Laravel's built-in authentication services.

Next, if your application offers an API that will be consumed by third parties, you will choose between Passport or Sanctum to provide API token authentication for your application. In general, Sanctum should be preferred when possible since it is a simple, complete solution for API authentication, SPA authentication, and mobile authentication, including support for "scopes" or "abilities".

If you are building a single-page application (SPA) that will be powered by a Laravel backend, you should use Laravel Sanctum. When using Sanctum, you will either need to manually implement your own backend authentication routes or utilize Laravel Fortify as a headless authentication backend service that provides routes and controllers for features such as registration, password reset, email verification, and more.

Passport may be chosen when your application absolutely needs all of the features provided by the OAuth2 specification.


### Retrieving the Authenticated User

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth;

// Retrieve the currently authenticated user...
$user = Auth::user();

// Retrieve the currently authenticated user's ID...
$id = Auth::id();

// Using request object
$user = $request->user();

// Returns true if user is authenticated (Its better to use auth middleware)
if (Auth::check()) {
    // The user is logged in...
}
```


### Protecting Routes

Laravel ships with an auth middleware, which is a middleware alias for the Illuminate\Auth\Middleware\Authenticate class. Since this middleware is already aliased internally by Laravel, all you need to do is attach the middleware to a route definition:

```php
Route::get('/flights', function () {
    // Only authenticated users may access this route...
})->middleware('auth');
```

### Redirecting Unauthenticated Users

When the auth middleware detects an unauthenticated user, it will redirect the user to the login named route. You may modify this behavior using the method redirectGuestsTo of your application's bootstrap/app.php file:

```php
use Illuminate\Http\Request;

->withMiddleware(function (Middleware $middleware) {
    $middleware->redirectGuestsTo('/login');

    // Using a closure...
    $middleware->redirectGuestsTo(fn (Request $request) => route('login'));
})
```


### Specifying a Guard

When attaching the auth middleware to a route, you may also specify which "guard" should be used to authenticate the user. The guard specified should correspond to one of the keys in the guards array of your auth.php configuration file:

```php
Route::get('/flights', function () {
    // Only authenticated users may access this route...
})->middleware('auth:admin');
```

## Authenticating Users

We will access Laravel's authentication services via the Auth facade, so we'll need to make sure to import the Auth facade at the top of the class. Next, let's check out the attempt method. The attempt method is normally used to handle authentication attempts from your application's "login" form. If authentication is successful, you should regenerate the user's session to prevent session fixation:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Http\Controllers;

use Illuminate\Http\Request;
use Illuminate\Http\RedirectResponse;
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth;

class LoginController extends Controller
{
    /**
     * Handle an authentication attempt.
     */
    public function authenticate(Request $request): RedirectResponse
    {
        $credentials = $request->validate([
            'email' => ['required', 'email'],
            'password' => ['required'],
        ]);

        if (Auth::attempt($credentials)) {
            $request->session()->regenerate();

            return redirect()->intended('dashboard');
        }

        return back()->withErrors([
            'email' => 'The provided credentials do not match our records.',
        ])->onlyInput('email');
    }
}
```

The attempt method accepts an array of key / value pairs as its first argument. The values in the array will be used to find the user in your database table. So, in the example above, the user will be retrieved by the value of the email column. If the user is found, the hashed password stored in the database will be compared with the password value passed to the method via the array. You should not hash the incoming request's password value, since the framework will automatically hash the value before comparing it to the hashed password in the database. An authenticated session will be started for the user if the two hashed passwords match.

Remember, Laravel's authentication services will retrieve users from your database based on your authentication guard's "provider" configuration. In the default config/auth.php configuration file, the Eloquent user provider is specified and it is instructed to use the App\Models\User model when retrieving users. You may change these values within your configuration file based on the needs of your application.

The attempt method will return true if authentication was successful. Otherwise, false will be returned.

The intended method provided by Laravel's redirector will redirect the user to the URL they were attempting to access before being intercepted by the authentication middleware. A fallback URI may be given to this method in case the intended destination is not available.


### Specifying Additional Conditions

If you wish, you may also add extra query conditions to the authentication query in addition to the user's email and password. To accomplish this, we may simply add the query conditions to the array passed to the attempt method. For example, we may verify that the user is marked as "active":

```php
if (Auth::attempt(['email' => $email, 'password' => $password, 'active' => 1])) {
    // Authentication was successful...
}
```


For complex query conditions, you may provide a closure in your array of credentials. This closure will be invoked with the query instance, allowing you to customize the query based on your application's needs:

```php
use Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Builder;

if (Auth::attempt([
    'email' => $email,
    'password' => $password,
    fn (Builder $query) => $query->has('activeSubscription'),
])) {
    // Authentication was successful...
}
```

The attemptWhen method, which receives a closure as its second argument, may be used to perform more extensive inspection of the potential user before actually authenticating the user. The closure receives the potential user and should return true or false to indicate if the user may be authenticated:

```php
if (Auth::attemptWhen([
    'email' => $email,
    'password' => $password,
], function (User $user) {
    return $user->isNotBanned();
})) {
    // Authentication was successful...
}
```

### Accessing Specific Guard Instances

Via the Auth facade's guard method, you may specify which guard instance you would like to utilize when authenticating the user. This allows you to manage authentication for separate parts of your application using entirely separate authenticatable models or user tables.

The guard name passed to the guard method should correspond to one of the guards configured in your auth.php configuration file:

```php
if (Auth::guard('admin')->attempt($credentials)) {
    // ...
}
```

### Remembering Users

When the second argument to the attempt method is true laravel will keep the user authenticated indefinitely or until they manually logout.

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth;

if (Auth::attempt(['email' => $email, 'password' => $password], $remember)) {
    // The user is being remembered...
}
```

You may use the `viaRemember` method to determine if the currently authenticated user was authenticated using the "remember me" cookie:

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth;

if (Auth::viaRemember()) {
    // ...
}
```


## Other Authentication Methods

### Authenticate a User Instance

If you need to set an existing user instance as the currently authenticated user, you may pass the user instance to the Auth facade's login method. The given user instance must be an implementation of the Illuminate\Contracts\Auth\Authenticatable contract. The App\Models\User model included with Laravel already implements this interface. This method of authentication is useful when you already have a valid user instance, such as directly after a user registers with your application:

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth;

Auth::login($user);

Auth::login($user, $remember = true);

Auth::guard('admin')->login($user);
```

### Authenticate a User by ID

```php
Auth::loginUsingId(1);

Auth::loginUsingId(1, remember: true);
```

### Authenticate a User Once

You may use the once method to authenticate a user with the application for a single request. No sessions or cookies will be utilized when calling this method:

```php
if (Auth::once($credentials)) {
    // ...
}
```

### Logging Out

To manually log users out of your application, you may use the logout method provided by the Auth facade. This will remove the authentication information from the user's session so that subsequent requests are not authenticated.

In addition to calling the logout method, it is recommended that you invalidate the user's session and regenerate their CSRF token. After logging the user out, you would typically redirect the user to the root of your application:

```php
use Illuminate\Http\Request;
use Illuminate\Http\RedirectResponse;
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth;

/**
 * Log the user out of the application.
 */
public function logout(Request $request): RedirectResponse
{
    Auth::logout();

    $request->session()->invalidate();

    $request->session()->regenerateToken();

    return redirect('/');
}
```

### Invalidating Sessions on Other Devices

Laravel also provides a mechanism for invalidating and "logging out" a user's sessions that are active on other devices without invalidating the session on their current device. This feature is typically utilized when a user is changing or updating their password and you would like to invalidate sessions on other devices while keeping the current device authenticated.

Before getting started, you should make sure that the Illuminate\Session\Middleware\AuthenticateSession middleware is included on the routes that should receive session authentication. Typically, you should place this middleware on a route group definition so that it can be applied to the majority of your application's routes. By default, the AuthenticateSession middleware may be attached to a route using the auth.session middleware alias:

```php
Route::middleware(['auth', 'auth.session'])->group(function () {
    Route::get('/', function () {
        // ...
    });
});
```

Then, you may use the logoutOtherDevices method provided by the Auth facade. This method requires the user to confirm their current password, which your application should accept through an input form:

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth;

Auth::logoutOtherDevices($currentPassword);
```

When the logoutOtherDevices method is invoked, the user's other sessions will be invalidated entirely, meaning they will be "logged out" of all guards they were previously authenticated by.

