```bash
php artisan about

php artisan about --only=environment

# Explore a specific configuration file's values in detail, you may use the config:show Artisan command:
php artisan config:show database
```

### Environment file

If you are developing with a team, you may wish to continue including and updating the .env.example file with your application. By putting placeholder values in the example configuration file, other developers on your team can clearly see which environment variables are needed to run your application.

Before loading your application's environment variables, Laravel determines if an APP_ENV environment variable has been externally provided or if the --env CLI argument has been specified. If so, Laravel will attempt to load an .env.[APP_ENV] file if it exists. If it does not exist, the default .env file will be loaded.

All of the variables listed in the .env file will be loaded into the $_ENV PHP super-global when your application receives a request.

> Any variable in your .env file can be overridden by external environment variables such as server-level or system-level environment variables.


### Environment Variable Types

All variables in your .env files are typically parsed as strings, so some reserved values have been created to allow you to return a wider range of types from the env() function:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th><code>.env</code> Value</th>
            <th><code>env()</code> Value</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>true</td>
            <td>(bool) true</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>(true)</td>
            <td>(bool) true</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>false</td>
            <td>(bool) false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>(false)</td>
            <td>(bool) false</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>empty</td>
            <td>(string) ''</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>(empty)</td>
            <td>(string) ''</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>null</td>
            <td>(null) null</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>(null)</td>
            <td>(null) null</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

If you need to define an environment variable with a value that contains spaces, you may do so by enclosing the value in double quotes:

```bash
APP_NAME="My Application"
```

### Determining the Current Environment

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\App;

$environment = App::environment();

if (App::environment('local')) {
    // The environment is local
}

if (App::environment(['local', 'staging'])) {
    // The environment is either local OR staging...
}
```

> The current application environment detection can be overridden by defining a server-level APP_ENV environment variable.

## Encrypting Environment Files

Unencrypted environment files should never be stored in source control. However, Laravel allows you to encrypt your environment files so that they may safely be added to source control with the rest of your application.

```bash
php artisan env:encrypt
```

Running the env:encrypt command will encrypt your .env file and place the encrypted contents in an .env.encrypted file. The decryption key is presented in the output of the command and should be stored in a secure password manager.

```bash
# Encrypt .env.staging file
php artisan env:encrypt --env=staging
```

### Decrypt

When decrypting laravel find key from `LARAVEL_ENV_ENCRYPTION_KEY` environment variable.

```bash
# .env.encrypted file will be decrypted to .env file
php artisan env:decrypt

# Directly provide key
php artisan env:decrypt --key=3UVsEgGVK36XN82KKeyLFMhvosbZN1aF

# Decrypt .env.staging.encrypted to .env.staging
php artisan env:decrypt --env=staging

# Overwrite an existing .env file
php artisan env:decrypt --force

# Decrypt .env.production.encrypted to .env file
php artisan env:decrypt --env=production --filename=.env
```

## Accessing Configuration Values

The configuration values may be accessed using "dot" syntax, which includes the name of the file and option you wish to access.

```php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Config;

$value = Config::get('app.timezone');

$value = config('app.timezone');

// Retrieve a default value if the configuration value does not exist...
$value = config('app.timezone', 'Asia/Seoul');
```

To set configuration values at runtime, you may invoke the Config facade's set method or pass an array to the config function:

```php
Config::set('app.timezone', 'America/Chicago');

config(['app.timezone' => 'America/Chicago']);
```

To assist with static analysis, the Config facade also provides typed configuration retrieval methods. If the retrieved configuration value does not match the expected type, an exception will be thrown:

```php
Config::string('config-key');
Config::integer('config-key');
Config::float('config-key');
Config::boolean('config-key');
Config::array('config-key');
```

## Configuration Caching

You should typically run the `php artisan config:cache` command as part of your production deployment process.

Once the configuration has been cached, your application's .env file will not be loaded by the framework during requests or Artisan commands; therefore, the env function will only return external, system level environment variables.

For this reason, you should ensure you are only calling the env function from within your application's configuration (config) files.

The config:clear command may be used to purge the cached configuration:

```bash
php artisan config:clear
```

### Configuration Publishing

Certain configuration files like cors.php and view.php are not published by default, as most applications will never need to modify them.

```bash
php artisan config:publish

php artisan config:publish --all
```

## Debug Mode

The debug option in your config/app.php configuration file determines how much information about an error is actually displayed to the user. By default, this option is set to respect the value of the APP_DEBUG environment variable, which is stored in your .env file.

> For local development, you should set the APP_DEBUG environment variable to true. In your production environment, this value should always be false. If the variable is set to true in production, you risk exposing sensitive configuration values to your application's end users.


## Maintenance Mode

To enable maintenance mode, execute the down Artisan command:

```bash
php artisan down
```

A HttpException instance will be thrown with a status code of 503 for all requests.

If you would like the Refresh HTTP header to be sent with all maintenance mode responses, you may provide the refresh option when invoking the down command. The Refresh header will instruct the browser to automatically refresh the page after the specified number of seconds:

```bash
php artisan down --refresh=15
```

### Bypassing Maintenance Mode

To allow maintenance mode to be bypassed using a secret token, you may use the secret option to specify a maintenance mode bypass token:

```bash
php artisan down --secret="1630542a-246b-4b66-afa1-dd72a4c43515"
```

After placing the application in maintenance mode, you may navigate to the application URL matching this token and Laravel will issue a maintenance mode bypass cookie to your browser:

```
https://example.com/1630542a-246b-4b66-afa1-dd72a4c43515
```

If you would like Laravel to generate the secret token for you, you may use the with-secret option.

```bash
php artisan down --with-secret
```

When accessing this hidden route, you will then be redirected to the / route of the application. Once the cookie has been issued to your browser, you will be able to browse the application normally as if it was not in maintenance mode.

> Your maintenance mode secret should typically consist of alpha-numeric characters and, optionally, dashes. You should avoid using characters that have special meaning in URLs such as ? or &.

### Maintenance Mode on Multiple Servers


By default, Laravel determines if your application is in maintenance mode using a file-based system. This means to activate maintenance mode, the php artisan down command has to be executed on each server hosting your application.

Alternatively, Laravel offers a cache-based method for handling maintenance mode. This method requires running the php artisan down command on just one server. To use this approach, modify the "driver" setting in the `config/app.php` file of your application to cache. Then, select a cache store that is accessible by all your servers. This ensures the maintenance mode status is consistently maintained across every server:

```bash
'maintenance' => [
    'driver' => 'cache',
    'store' => 'database',
],
```

### Pre-Rendering the Maintenance Mode View

If you utilize the php artisan down command during deployment, your users may still occasionally encounter errors if they access the application while your Composer dependencies or other infrastructure components are updating. This occurs because a significant part of the Laravel framework must boot in order to determine your application is in maintenance mode and render the maintenance mode view using the templating engine.

For this reason, Laravel allows you to pre-render a maintenance mode view that will be returned at the very beginning of the request cycle. This view is rendered before any of your application's dependencies have loaded. You may pre-render a template of your choice using the down command's render option:

```bash
php artisan down --render="errors::503"
```

### Redirecting Maintenance Mode Requests

While in maintenance mode, Laravel will display the maintenance mode view for all application URLs the user attempts to access. If you wish, you may instruct Laravel to redirect all requests to a specific URL. This may be accomplished using the redirect option. For example, you may wish to redirect all requests to the / URI:

```bash
php artisan down --redirect=/
```

### Disabling Maintenance Mode

To disable maintenance mode, use the up command:

```bash
php artisan up
```

> You may customize the default maintenance mode template by defining your own template at resources/views/errors/503.blade.php.


### Maintenance Mode and Queues

While your application is in maintenance mode, no queued jobs will be handled. The jobs will continue to be handled as normal once the application is out of maintenance mode.

